                  	
TITLE:    ONLINE TICKET BOOKING SYSTEM

AUTHOR: pratiksha deshmukh(PG-DAC 233068)

ORGANISATION: IACSD,Akurdi pune

PURPOSE: The purpose is to provide a single online platform for ticket booking for 
        tavelling to any registered user, without visiting the travel business in reality.

SCOPE: The system provide online ticket booking facility for a registered user to book ticket for
      bus,aeroplane and train in online platform.it provides option to the registered user to search 
      avaibility of bus,train,plane as per the user's requirements. it allows user to book the ticket 
      and offers online mode of payment. it also provides option for cancellation with refund amount.

FUNCTIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
       the system provides sign up option to uanyone to become a registered user of the application.
       the registered user can search for travelling options like by bus,by plane or by train.

       the user is provided with search option to choose source and destination the journey 
       and can find suitable option on the date of his choice.

       the user can book any number of  tickets, make payment for the same using online mode of payment.
       the user can also get refund if he wants to cancel the booking.

       the system provides the ticket booking agency officals to manage the data on the system with
       authorized access only. the bussiness officials can accept or deny the request for online ticket 
      that is booked by the users.

       the system provides BOD the graphical representation of the activities and revenue 
       generated on the system.


NON-FUNCTIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
      1.security: the system gives scope for performing authentication and authorization for the registered
                  users like customers and official persons of the online ticket booking agency.
                  it does not allow un-authorized access to the system.
                  the system will automatically log out the user after 15v minutes of inactivity. 
                  such robust system will be safe from hackers and prevent users from phishing attacks.
      2.reliability:the system is reliable that gives constant tiome performance. it can handle 
                  the load during peak sesason.
      3.accessibility:the system is accessible all over the world 24*7.
      4.portability:the system is portable on any OS (like linus,windows),on any devices (like mobile,desktop).
      5.scalability:the system is scalable and can acquire more number of vendors and users.
      6.maintainability:the system uses webserver that guaranmtees the maintainable data with poersistence.
      7.efficiency:the system gives efficient performance to users by getting rid off unnecessary data 
                   and providing what is necessary.
      8.safety:the system uses latest anti virus technologues to prevent any virus, and hacking attacks.

DESIGN CONSTRAINTS:the system will be build using tachnologies like JAVA,REACT,MYsql etc.
                  the preliminary version will be developed in developer envieronment, tested in tester 
                  environment and will be deployed in product environment.

PRELIMINARY SCHEDULE:The preliminary schedule gives 6 months to release first version of the system.